The risk aversion term,
is set to target a particular size for the portfolio.
When we say "size",
this could be any measure of size such as gross market value,
value at risk, volatility, or leverage.
The risk aversion parameter maps one-to-one onto any of these size metrics.
By that, I mean that decreasing the risk parameter increases the size of the portfolio,
and increasing the risk parameter,
decreases the size of the portfolio.
The risk aversion parameter allows you to target whatever size metric that you prefer.
The gross market value is the dollar value of
the absolute value of the long and short holdings,
also called the L1 norm.
When we think about what it means to take more risks when investing,
taking bigger bets with more money is a way to take on more risk.
The risk aversion term controls how much risk we
take by controlling the dollar amount of our positions,
which is the gross market value.